Welcome to Budget Tracker

Summary: Tracks Bills, Income and lets you know how much money you have
at any point in time.

This product is a website that uses nodejs as a server, a browser as the
client and mongodb to store the data. This project was started as a means to help me teach myself about these three technologies. As I was very sick when the project started it is likely that things will be immature.

This is also a way I can get started using git and github.

User Requirements:
 * The user is typically a single user or a couple who want to keep track of simple day to day expenses such as mortgage, bills, expenses and have a regular income.

 1. To know how much money the user will have at any point in time.
 2. To know when bills will come up and need to be paid.
 3. To be able to make judgements about savings involving interest.

Technical:
The user will be asked to enter:
* Their current bank and cash balances
* Their bills with the following details:
   * Amount
   * Due date
   * Frequences (Every week, fortnight, 4 weeks, month, quarter, half or year)
   * When (and if) the bill will 'dry up' or not need to be paid again.
* Their income with the about details.
* The interest rate on their credit card and how fees are calculated.

Keywords (todo):
Income and expenses will have Keywords associated with them. Each keyword can belong to a parent keyword. This is designed to be flexible to allow for searching and hierarchical sorting. Consider for example the following bills:

Water {
   Utility <- Bill <- Expense
   Crucial
   Variable
   Quarterly
}

Tim's Mobile {
   Bill <- Expense
   Tim
   Important
   Monthly
}

Petrol {
   Living <- Expense
   Gemma
}

Food Shopping {
   Living <- Expense
   Important
}

The user gets to decide which keywords are associated with each income or expense. They can also decide if one keyword is a parent of another.

Sometimes an expense or income will have additional keywords that will apply as a one off. Some keywords need to be overridden. Events can be introduced as keywords.

Food Shopping instance xxx {
   Dinner Party
   Trivial
   not Important
}


Usability:
The product will make high use of javascript, ajax and json to make it fast and to allow the user to see changes instantly and mostly everything on the same page.

At first there will be no entries for a new user so we need an
Add Browse Change Delete (ABCD) mechanism for
  * bank balances
  * income and expenses
  * keywords

The ABCD mechanism will work like this.
Add:
A blank 'row' for new entries. A row is defined as having a key and values
A save button which when clicked will send the data to the server to be saved
If the saved data is valid then the row is transformed into a Browse row

Browse:
The user will be able to see all rows. When a use clicks on the row it will transform into a details view and will look different perhaps taking on a new layer similar to viewing events in iCal. Perhaps there can be an option to see more details without being in edit mode.

Change:
The edit mode may vary slightly from the view mode of a row. If the saved data is valid then we return to the browse view, else the user is notified and may choose to cancel changes.

Delete:
The user may get an "are you sure?" if it has dependant rows. Delete is available from the browse and view screens.

Notes:
This product will use a build and see methodology to encountering and addressing issues that arise. Any point of the specification may change accordingly.

Criticisms:
Having abcd of 'rows' is too simplistic for the problem at hand in cases of docs containing lists. For example a 'Savings' bank account will have different amounts on different dates (currently it only stores the most recent amount). Also an item will have multiple keywords and potentially diffent amounts on different dates. Therefore the currently employed abcd mechanism may be crippling these sorts of enhancements. It also looks pretty ugly having the details sitting on top of the catalog. We could certainly rethink the design of this layout.
